docs/page/config.rst, before:

*************
Configuration
*************


Editing the configuration
=========================
All configuration takes place in your `config.yaml` file.

- To edit your configuration in ``$EDITOR`` run:

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ organize config  # example: "EDITOR=vim organize config"

- To show the full path to your configuration file::

    $ organize config --path

- To open the folder containing the configuration file::

    $ organize config --open-folder

- To debug your configuration run::

  $ organize config --debug


Environment variables
=====================

- ``$EDITOR`` - The editor used to edit the config file.
- ``$ORGANIZE_CONFIG`` - The config file path. Is overridden by ``--config-file`` cmd line argument.


Rule syntax
===========
The rule configuration is done in `YAML <https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/yaml/>`_.
You need a top-level element ``rules`` which contains a list of rules.
Each rule defines ``folders``, ``filters`` (optional) and ``actions``.

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml
  :emphasize-lines: 1,2,5,10,14,16,18

  rules:
    - folders:
        - ~/Desktop
        - /some/folder/
      filters:
        - lastmodified:
            days: 40
            mode: newer
        - extension: pdf
      actions:
        - move: ~/Desktop/Target/
        - trash

    - folders:
        - ~/Inbox
      filters:
        - extension: pdf
      actions:
        - move: ~/otherinbox
      # optional settings:
      enabled: true
      subfolders: true
      system_files: false

- ``folders`` is a list of folders you want to organize.
- ``filters`` is a list of filters to apply to the files - you can filter by file extension, last modified date, regular expressions and many more. See :ref:`Filters`.
- ``actions`` is a list of actions to apply to the filtered files. You can put them into the trash, move them into another folder and many more. See :ref:`Actions`.

Other optional per rule settings:

- ``enabled`` can be used to temporarily disable single rules. Default = true
- ``subfolders`` specifies whether subfolders should be included in the search. Default = false. This setting only applies to folders without glob wildcards.
- ``system_files`` specifies whether to include system files (desktop.ini, thumbs.db, .DS_Store) in the search. Default = false


Folder syntax
=============
Every rule in your configuration file needs to know the folders it applies to.
The easiest way is to define the rules like this:

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  rules:
    - folders:
        - /path/one
        - /path/two
      filters: ...
      actions: ...

    - folders:
        - /path/one
        - /another/path
      filters: ...
      actions: ...


Globstrings
-----------
You can use globstrings in the folder lists. For example to get all files with filenames ending with ``_ui`` and any file extension you can use:

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  rules:
    - folders:
        - '~/Downloads/*_ui.*'
      actions:
        - echo: '{path}'

You can use globstrings to recurse through subdirectories (alternatively you can use the ``subfolders: true`` setting as shown below)

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  rules:
    - folders:
        - '~/Downloads/**/*.*'
      actions:
        - echo: 'base {basedir}, path {path}, relative: {relative_path}'

    # alternative syntax
    - folders:
        - ~/Downloads
      subfolders: true
      actions:
        - echo: 'base {basedir}, path {path}, relative: {relative_path}'


The following example recurses through all subdirectories in your downloads folder and finds files with ending in ``.c`` and ``.h``.

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  rules:
    - folders:
        - '~/Downloads/**/*.[c|h]'
      actions:
        - echo: '{path}'

.. note::
  - You have to target files with the globstring, not folders. So to scan through all folders starting with *log_* you would write ``yourpath/log_*/*``


Excluding files and folders
---------------------------
Files and folders can be excluded by prepending an exclamation mark. The following example selects all files
in ``~/Downloads`` and its subfolders - excluding the folder ``Software``:

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  rules:
    - folders:
        - '~/Downloads/**/*'
        - '! ~/Downloads/Software'
      actions:
        - echo: '{path}'


Globstrings can be used to exclude only specific files / folders. This example:

  - adds all files in ``~/Downloads``
  - exludes files from that list whose name contains the word ``system`` ending in ``.bak``
  - adds all files from ``~/Documents``
  - excludes the file ``~/Documents/important.txt``.

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  rules:
    - folders:
        - '~/Downloads/**/*'
        - '! ~/Downloads/**/*system*.bak'
        - '~/Documents'
        - '! ~/Documents/important.txt'
      actions:
        - echo: '{path}'

.. note::
  - Files and folders are included and excluded in the order you specify them!
  - Please make sure your are putting the exclamation mark within quotation marks.


Aliases
-------
Instead of repeating the same folders in each and every rule you can use an alias for multiple folders which you can then reference in each rule.
Aliases are a standard feature of the YAML syntax.

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml


  all_my_messy_folders: &all
    - ~/Desktop
    - ~/Downloads
    - ~/Documents
    - ~/Dropbox

  rules:
    - folders: *all
      filters: ...
      actions: ...

    - folders: *all
      filters: ...
      actions: ...

You can even use multiple folder lists:

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  private_folders: &private
    - '/path/private'
    - '~/path/private'

  work_folders: &work
    - '/path/work'
    - '~/My work folder'

  all_folders: &all
    - *private
    - *work

  rules:
    - folders: *private
      filters: ...
      actions: ...

    - folders: *work
      filters: ...
      actions: ...

    - folders: *all
      filters: ...
      actions: ...

    # same as *all
    - folders:
        - *work
        - *private
      filters: ...
      actions: ...


Filter syntax
=============
``filters`` is a list of :ref:`Filters`.
Filters are defined like this:

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  rules:
    - folders: ...
      actions: ...
      filters:
        # filter without parameters
        - FilterName

        # filter with a single parameter
        - FilterName: parameter

        # filter expecting a list as parameter
        - FilterName:
          - first
          - second
          - third

        # filter with multiple parameters
        - FilterName:
            parameter1: true
            option2: 10.51
            third_argument: test string

.. note::
  Every filter comes with multiple usage examples which should be easy to adapt for your use case!


Action syntax
=============
``actions`` is a list of :ref:`Actions`.
Actions can be defined like this:

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  rules:
    - folders: ...
      actions:
        # action without parameters
        - ActionName

        # action with a single parameter
        - ActionName: parameter

        # filter with multiple parameters
        - ActionName:
            parameter1: true
            option2: 10.51
            third_argument: test string

.. note::
  Every action comes with multiple usage examples which should be easy to adapt for your use case!

Variable substitution (placeholders)
------------------------------------
**You can use placeholder variables in your actions.**

Placeholder variables are used with curly braces ``{var}``.
You always have access to the variables ``{path}``, ``{basedir}`` and ``{relative_path}``:

- ``{path}`` -- is the full path to the current file
- ``{basedir}`` -- the current base folder (the base folder is the folder you
  specify in your configuration).
- ``{relative_path}`` -- the relative path from ``{basedir}`` to ``{path}``

Use the dot notation to access properties of ``{path}``, ``{basedir}`` and ``{relative_path}``:

- ``{path}`` -- the full path to the current file
- ``{path.name}`` -- the full filename including extension
- ``{path.stem}`` -- just the file name without extension
- ``{path.suffix}`` -- the file extension
- ``{path.parent}`` -- the parent folder of the current file
- ``{path.parent.parent}`` -- parent calls are chainable...

- ``{basedir}`` -- the full path to the current base folder
- ``{basedir.parent}`` -- the full path to the base folder's parent

and any other property of the python ``pathlib.Path`` (`official documentation
<https://docs.python.org/3/library/pathlib.html#methods-and-properties>`_) object.

Additionally :ref:`Filters` may emit placeholder variables when applied to a
path. Check the documentation and examples of the filter to see available
placeholder variables and usage examples.

Some examples include:

- ``{lastmodified.year}`` -- the year the file was last modified
- ``{regex.yournamedgroup}`` -- anything you can extract via regular expressions
- ``{extension.upper}`` -- the file extension in uppercase
- ... and many more.

Commit message:

Feature/filter python (#44)
* first working python filter

* improved DotDict handling

* fix dotdict

* add env variable note to docs

* fix filter print

* first working python filter

* improved DotDict handling

* fix dotdict

* add env variable note to docs

* fix filter print

* remove pytest-datafiles

docs/page/config.rst, after:

*************
Configuration
*************


Editing the configuration
=========================
All configuration takes place in your `config.yaml` file.

- To edit your configuration in ``$EDITOR`` run:

  .. code-block:: bash

    $ organize config  # example: "EDITOR=vim organize config"

- To show the full path to your configuration file::

    $ organize config --path

- To open the folder containing the configuration file::

    $ organize config --open-folder

- To debug your configuration run::

  $ organize config --debug


Environment variables
=====================

- ``$EDITOR`` - The editor used to edit the config file.
- ``$ORGANIZE_CONFIG`` - The config file path. Is overridden by ``--config-file`` cmd line argument.


Rule syntax
===========
The rule configuration is done in `YAML <https://learnxinyminutes.com/docs/yaml/>`_.
You need a top-level element ``rules`` which contains a list of rules.
Each rule defines ``folders``, ``filters`` (optional) and ``actions``.

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml
  :emphasize-lines: 1,2,5,10,14,16,18

  rules:
    - folders:
        - ~/Desktop
        - /some/folder/
      filters:
        - lastmodified:
            days: 40
            mode: newer
        - extension: pdf
      actions:
        - move: ~/Desktop/Target/
        - trash

    - folders:
        - ~/Inbox
      filters:
        - extension: pdf
      actions:
        - move: ~/otherinbox
      # optional settings:
      enabled: true
      subfolders: true
      system_files: false

- ``folders`` is a list of folders you want to organize.
- ``filters`` is a list of filters to apply to the files - you can filter by file extension, last modified date, regular expressions and many more. See :ref:`Filters`.
- ``actions`` is a list of actions to apply to the filtered files. You can put them into the trash, move them into another folder and many more. See :ref:`Actions`.

Other optional per rule settings:

- ``enabled`` can be used to temporarily disable single rules. Default = true
- ``subfolders`` specifies whether subfolders should be included in the search. Default = false. This setting only applies to folders without glob wildcards.
- ``system_files`` specifies whether to include system files (desktop.ini, thumbs.db, .DS_Store) in the search. Default = false


Folder syntax
=============
Every rule in your configuration file needs to know the folders it applies to.
The easiest way is to define the rules like this:

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  rules:
    - folders:
        - /path/one
        - /path/two
      filters: ...
      actions: ...

    - folders:
        - /path/one
        - /another/path
      filters: ...
      actions: ...

.. note::
  - You can use environment variables in your folder names. On windows this means you can use ``%public%/Desktop``, ``%APPDATA%``, ``%PROGRAMDATA%`` etc.

Globstrings
-----------
You can use globstrings in the folder lists. For example to get all files with filenames ending with ``_ui`` and any file extension you can use:

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  rules:
    - folders:
        - '~/Downloads/*_ui.*'
      actions:
        - echo: '{path}'

You can use globstrings to recurse through subdirectories (alternatively you can use the ``subfolders: true`` setting as shown below)

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  rules:
    - folders:
        - '~/Downloads/**/*.*'
      actions:
        - echo: 'base {basedir}, path {path}, relative: {relative_path}'

    # alternative syntax
    - folders:
        - ~/Downloads
      subfolders: true
      actions:
        - echo: 'base {basedir}, path {path}, relative: {relative_path}'


The following example recurses through all subdirectories in your downloads folder and finds files with ending in ``.c`` and ``.h``.

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  rules:
    - folders:
        - '~/Downloads/**/*.[c|h]'
      actions:
        - echo: '{path}'

.. note::
  - You have to target files with the globstring, not folders. So to scan through all folders starting with *log_* you would write ``yourpath/log_*/*``


Excluding files and folders
---------------------------
Files and folders can be excluded by prepending an exclamation mark. The following example selects all files
in ``~/Downloads`` and its subfolders - excluding the folder ``Software``:

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  rules:
    - folders:
        - '~/Downloads/**/*'
        - '! ~/Downloads/Software'
      actions:
        - echo: '{path}'


Globstrings can be used to exclude only specific files / folders. This example:

  - adds all files in ``~/Downloads``
  - exludes files from that list whose name contains the word ``system`` ending in ``.bak``
  - adds all files from ``~/Documents``
  - excludes the file ``~/Documents/important.txt``.

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  rules:
    - folders:
        - '~/Downloads/**/*'
        - '! ~/Downloads/**/*system*.bak'
        - '~/Documents'
        - '! ~/Documents/important.txt'
      actions:
        - echo: '{path}'

.. note::
  - Files and folders are included and excluded in the order you specify them!
  - Please make sure your are putting the exclamation mark within quotation marks.


Aliases
-------
Instead of repeating the same folders in each and every rule you can use an alias for multiple folders which you can then reference in each rule.
Aliases are a standard feature of the YAML syntax.

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml


  all_my_messy_folders: &all
    - ~/Desktop
    - ~/Downloads
    - ~/Documents
    - ~/Dropbox

  rules:
    - folders: *all
      filters: ...
      actions: ...

    - folders: *all
      filters: ...
      actions: ...

You can even use multiple folder lists:

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  private_folders: &private
    - '/path/private'
    - '~/path/private'

  work_folders: &work
    - '/path/work'
    - '~/My work folder'

  all_folders: &all
    - *private
    - *work

  rules:
    - folders: *private
      filters: ...
      actions: ...

    - folders: *work
      filters: ...
      actions: ...

    - folders: *all
      filters: ...
      actions: ...

    # same as *all
    - folders:
        - *work
        - *private
      filters: ...
      actions: ...


Filter syntax
=============
``filters`` is a list of :ref:`Filters`.
Filters are defined like this:

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  rules:
    - folders: ...
      actions: ...
      filters:
        # filter without parameters
        - FilterName

        # filter with a single parameter
        - FilterName: parameter

        # filter expecting a list as parameter
        - FilterName:
          - first
          - second
          - third

        # filter with multiple parameters
        - FilterName:
            parameter1: true
            option2: 10.51
            third_argument: test string

.. note::
  Every filter comes with multiple usage examples which should be easy to adapt for your use case!


Action syntax
=============
``actions`` is a list of :ref:`Actions`.
Actions can be defined like this:

.. code-block:: yaml
  :caption: config.yaml

  rules:
    - folders: ...
      actions:
        # action without parameters
        - ActionName

        # action with a single parameter
        - ActionName: parameter

        # filter with multiple parameters
        - ActionName:
            parameter1: true
            option2: 10.51
            third_argument: test string

.. note::
  Every action comes with multiple usage examples which should be easy to adapt for your use case!

Variable substitution (placeholders)
------------------------------------
**You can use placeholder variables in your actions.**

Placeholder variables are used with curly braces ``{var}``.
You always have access to the variables ``{path}``, ``{basedir}`` and ``{relative_path}``:

- ``{path}`` -- is the full path to the current file
- ``{basedir}`` -- the current base folder (the base folder is the folder you
  specify in your configuration).
- ``{relative_path}`` -- the relative path from ``{basedir}`` to ``{path}``

Use the dot notation to access properties of ``{path}``, ``{basedir}`` and ``{relative_path}``:

- ``{path}`` -- the full path to the current file
- ``{path.name}`` -- the full filename including extension
- ``{path.stem}`` -- just the file name without extension
- ``{path.suffix}`` -- the file extension
- ``{path.parent}`` -- the parent folder of the current file
- ``{path.parent.parent}`` -- parent calls are chainable...

- ``{basedir}`` -- the full path to the current base folder
- ``{basedir.parent}`` -- the full path to the base folder's parent

and any other property of the python ``pathlib.Path`` (`official documentation
<https://docs.python.org/3/library/pathlib.html#methods-and-properties>`_) object.

Additionally :ref:`Filters` may emit placeholder variables when applied to a
path. Check the documentation and examples of the filter to see available
placeholder variables and usage examples.

Some examples include:

- ``{lastmodified.year}`` -- the year the file was last modified
- ``{regex.yournamedgroup}`` -- anything you can extract via regular expressions
- ``{extension.upper}`` -- the file extension in uppercase
- ... and many more.
